If investors had a hall of fame, Warren
Buffett would occupy his own wing.
>> People from all over the planet look up
to him, read his biography, hop on a
plane to go see him talk.
>> He took a failing textile mill and
turned it into a trillion dollar
conglomerate, has insurance companies,
Dairy Queen, railroads,
and energy businesses.
For decades, Buffett's investment savvy
has led Berkshire Hath the way to beat
benchmarks.
>> One of the biggest asset managers today,
which is Vanguard, the entire philosophy
is no one's really going to be able to
beat the market, so you might as well
not even try. Well, okay, no one besides
Warren Buffett.
>> If you look at the total returns,
Berkshire blows the S&P 500 away.
>> The legendary investor Warren Buffett.
So when the 95-year-old announced he
would retire at the end of 2025,
>> Greg should become the chief executive
officer of the company. It marked the
end of an era at Berkshire Haway and
left everyone with one massive question.
Warren Buffett is one of the richest
people on earth, but his lifestyle
doesn't exactly scream it. He lives in
Omaha. He lives in the same house he's
lived for many, many years.
>> Holiday sausage muffin with
>> He goes to McDonald's in Omaha. A lot of
people around the city know him.
>> He's paid just 100k and has been paid
that amount for years. That's very
refreshing when you think about the
landscape today.
>> So, what's the backstory? While
Buffett's childhood fascination with
money led him to Colombia Business
School, where he studied under a
renowned educator,
>> Benjamin Graham was a financial analyst
considered to be the feather of value
investing.
>> Value investing is really this idea that
you're not just betting on some fluke in
the market. You're really looking at
what you think it's worth versus what
the value that the market is providing.
Ideally, you want to buy a company that
you think is undervalued and that it's
going to rise in many years. But that
requires a lot of due diligence. That
requires you to make sure you actually
understand how the business works.
>> I'm not buying them because I think
they're going to go up next year. I'm
buying them because I think they'll be
worth quite a bit more money 10 years or
20 years from now.
>> Investment after investment, that
strategy came to define Berkshire
Hathaway. But let's see it in action by
focusing on just one.
>> American Express is an investment that
he's had for decades. And when he bought
it, the stock price was a bit down
because of a scandal at the time. But he
saw the value of Americans that kept
swiping those AMX all over the place.
That was back in the 1960s. But look at
this. Berkshire's current MX holding was
largely assembled here in the 1990s for
about $1.3 billion. Since then,
Buffett's largely left that core stake
intact. But AMX's market value has
soared in the years since, making his
22% holding worth tens of billions of
dollars. He was interested because the
company has a good moat. By moat, he
means some competitive advantage against
other companies in the business.
>> For AMX, that moat is a mix of its
premium brand, affluent card holders,
and a network built around their
spending power.
Another kind of edge you can have over
your competitors is regulation.
>> Think about the energy business. A lot
of those have advantages that a
competitor couldn't come in and easily
take the market share. That's really
helped his business sustain itself. He's
built up companies that are not so easy
to replicate.
>> But perhaps the most underappreciated
force behind Bergkshire's rise is its
insurance business. They're not always
the companies that are going to draw the
hype from stockholders, but it's
actually been a force that's built up
Berkshire a lot.
>> The insurance business provides us with
float and float is money that we hold
that doesn't belong to us.
>> The way it works is it has a very large
insurance arm that has a lot of money
from policy holders. They have to invest
it to reap some benefits and make sure
that they can pay claims afterwards.
Berkshire Hathaway has been ramping that
up to the max, buying a lot of insurance
companies and using that money, the
float to invest afterwards. This is
actually one of the hottest plays in the
investment world right now with a lot of
private equity and alternative asset
managers either buying or having
relationships with insurers.
>> While Buffett has been the face of
Berkshire Hathaway, he long had a
sidekick, both conveniently available as
lovingly hand rendered plushies. Charlie
Munger passed away in 2023, but the
dynamic he had with Buffett for many
years was one of the main draws of
Berkshire. They were a unique pair. If
you saw them sitting together at the
Berkshire annual meeting, they would
banter.
>> I predict Charlie's going to talk about
Costco. Go ahead, Charlie.
>> Well, Costco, of course, is a
>> Mer was fundamental to Buffett's
investing thesis. At the start of his
career, Buffett was very into this idea
of cigar but investing in which you
would take a company, you take one last
puff, and you'd get what you could out
of it before it sort of faltered. And
Charlie was one who really reshaped his
thinking into thinking about companies
that had a longerterm advantage. He went
from buying companies that were, you
know, not very famous like Berkshire
Hathaway, a textile mill that was
struggling to taking stakes into
Coca-Cola or Bank of America.
>> Not that this approach is always a sure
thing.
>> One is IBM when he bought his stay in
the early 2010. He said afterwards that
it was a big mistake. didn't see how IBM
was about to lose the turn of the
industry towards cloud computing.
>> He also orchestrated the merger of Craft
and Hines about 10 years ago.
>> It just hasn't gone to plan. Part of
that is down to changing consumer
tastes, consumers wanting healthier
things. Part of that is down to
inflation. And Buffett commented
recently that while he didn't think the
merger in hindsight was a great idea, he
doesn't think that undoing it is going
to fix the company's problems.
>> And lately, Buffett has struggled
finding companies he wants to invest in,
leaving Berkshire with a record amount
of cash.
>> It is so much easier to make very
successful bets when you're managing a
hundred million,200 million. He's now
got a cash pile that's more than $300
billion. and finding a place to put that
capital to work is getting really
difficult. He doesn't like to have money
that is sitting around and not earning
more money.
>> Higher interest rates these past few
years have turned that cash pile into a
nice income generator.
>> But it is going to get harder and harder
to deploy that level of capital the
bigger it gets.
>> So this is the Berkshire Hathaway Greg
Ael is inheriting as the company's new
CEO. Although sadly we don't have a
plushy of him.
>> He led Bergkshire's energy business for
so many years. But it is tricky. Warren
Buffett has not only been a very good
investor, but he's also pretty
charismatic. That's part of the reason
that so many investors have always made
that trek to Omaha despite the cost,
despite the distance.
>> Abel will also be taking charge at a
time when Buffett's hallmark strategy is
being tested. It is tough to be a value
investor when what's really lifting the
stock market is high growth companies.
The tech company's valuation might be
really high compared to sort of what the
underlying assets are. While Buffett has
bet on technology in recent years, his
misses on those opportunities will
always sort of linger.
>> The change in leadership also risks
reviving a long-standing debate.
>> A conglomerate is not a thing that has
stuck around. We've seen many
conglomerates such as GE fall apart in
recent years and sort of be split up.
>> Buffett's presence at Berkshire won't be
disappearing overnight.
>> He'll remain as chairman and I think his
influence will still be felt by the
company. He's a major shareholder of the
firm. And while he's slowly devesting
that stake and giving it to his
children's foundations, I think his
legacy will long be felt.
>> But Abel will be taking over many of his
duties, including the writing of
Burkshire's annual letter to
shareholders. This is a big change
because Buffett fans have been pouring
over that letter over the years because
it's full of witicisms, investment
advice, pearls of wisdom. There's also
the fact that he's not going to be
taking Q&A at the annual meeting next
May in Omaha.
>> Morning. Welcome to Berkshire Hathaway.
>> He was talking for four to five hours
every year and taking questions from
people that follow him all over the
planet. That is going to be a big change
because Buffer's personality is
unmatched in the investment world.